So welcome back, guys, in this section, we will going to discuss hip memory management in Linux operating
system.
So this is one of the topic which is of utmost importance in Linux system programming domain.
So in this section, we will going to cover the following goals.
We will discuss how mallock and free works.
We will discuss internal fragmentation of memory by Linux operating system.
We will try to understand the problem of fragmentation and what are the possible solution to this problem.
We will discuss the system calls which are related to heap memory management.
And of course, we will prepare a technical interview questions, so fasten your seat belts, guys,
for another great drive into the world of Linux system programming.
So going forward, so let us discuss some basics regarding heat memory management, heat memory of the
process is the continuous part of what your address, the space of the process from which a process
claims and reclaims memory during runtime.
And this process is well known as dynamic memory allocation.
So Lipsey appears to harness the functionality of memory management.
Are the following functions or APIs so Gypsie means that the standard library, which is provided by
Linux operating system so this is standard library, provides certain functions and APIs in order to
manipulate heap memory of the process.
So you must be familiar with Marlock function or Kalac function free or relock.
You can see that all of these APIs are concerned with the heap memory management of the process.
So not that Mallock alloc free and real OK are not system calls, but they are standard APIs which is
provided by the standard library.
System calls, on the other hand, which is provided by Linux operating system to manipulate memory
are PRK system call and as Bayaka system call.
This system calls are actually related to the management of heat memory segment of the process, so
unlike Stack memory, now we already have done the diagnostic memory.
So unlike a stack memory, which is reclaimed back up on procedure return automatically in case of heat
memory, it is programmer's responsibility to free the dynamic memory after usage.
Right.
So Mallock and Kolok are the functions or APIs, which is provided by standard library.
And these apps are used to allocate a block of memory from each segment of the process.
Free, on the other hand, is a counterpart to Mallock and Kalac EPWs, Free Appia is also provided
by Standard Library and it is used to release the Mahmudi back to the HEB segment, which was claimed
by Mallock or Kalac like EPIS.
So as a system programmer, you must know how dynamic memory allocation works and mine that this chapter
is one of the most important chapters of your life.
Indeed, it is very common to expect questions and interviews from this chapter or from this topic.
So please pay full attention to the section of the course.
So thank me later for covering deep memory management in such a great detail in this section of the
course.